Welcome back.
Let's talk about something called escape
sequence in Python let's comment this out and let me ask you a question.
What if we wanted to have a string that tells me let's say the weather.
And here we want to write it's sunny.
You see how the highlighting change here because I want to say it's with an apostrophe S..
But python is reading this and saying OK this is the start of the string and this is the end of the
string.
And then I have no idea what this is.
And then we're starting a string again.
How can we fix this.
Well we can add a double quote string instead.
And this now works.
But what if for some reason we also wanted to add it's kind of sunny in quotation marks.
Well now we have another issue.
So how can we solve this because in human language we have double quotes and apostrophes what we can
use escape sequences here and this is a little hard to understand at first but it's simply adding a
slash like this so the one right above your enter on the keyboard so this slash when Python goes through
it is going to say all right whatever comes after this I recognize this symbol whatever comes after
this I'm going to assume it's a string.
So now if I do backslash here and then backslash here it's going to say hey Python I'm letting you know
whatever comes after this is a string I'm letting you know whatever comes after this is a string and
then I'm letting you know what comes after this is a string so that when we print the weather everything
is printed nicely.
Awesome.
Now this escape sequence can be used in multiple ways.
For example if I want to have an actual backslash Well I can go like this.
And because it's saying whatever comes after this is a string it's going to assume that this is a string
now.
So if I run this you see that we get this backslash and there's a few other neat tricks a can do with
it.
For example one of it is the backslash T.
What does that mean.
Well let's remove this for now.
There you go the backslash t remember well it's out of space in here.
So we can distinguish it is going to say hey whatever comes after this.
I want you to add a tab.
This is a special meaning here.
So if I click on run you'll see that it's added a tab spacing to my string.
Another one is using n or a new line.
So let's leave t here and then add a backslash n and then say hope you have a good day.
What do you think will happen here.
Fact like run I have a tab from the backslash T.
And then I have a new line after kind of Sunny because I do the backslash and which denotes a new line
so that this shows up on a new line.
Now these escape sequences are hard to see at first but they're pretty much available in all programming
languages they use strings.
So if you come from another language this shouldn't be that strange to you.
If it's your first time seeing this you just need to get used to this syntax and every once in a while.
Go to the Python documentation and just type in escape sequences and you'll see all the ones that we
have.
These are the main ones that you need to know.
All right.
More to learn in the next video.